---
layout: post
title:  "day 2 - more notes"
date:   2021-08-26 15:54:42 -0600
categories: learning Jekyll
---

Alright, so I spent some time learning about "Pages" in the Jekyll environment. I also looked a little at the directory structure, and the contents of the directory structure. 

I also looked at the content of some of the site files, as well as located the theme documents, which are coming from a Gem. So that's pretty impressive. 

I also took it upon myself to update some of the functionality of my IDE to make things easier, specifically when working with Assets. 

I also altered some of the root styles in the Gem. but that's not the ideal way to do things, apparently.  

I believe the intention is to override certain files of the theme by creating a duplicate in the root directory. Which is fine, I totally understand that.  

But this brings a host of other questions. Such as: will everything be overwritten? Or what will be updated? Like, let's say I just wanted to change the background color of one type of element...do I need to duplicate the entire CSS from the Gem theme? 

What if I want to make a change to the layout? What then? 

The only real way to answer these questions is to try some things, But I need to both articulate the quesitons I have, as well as answer the questions that come up. 

And again, the only way to really learn these things is by spending time with them. 

### questions: 
1. If I duplicate a stylesheet within the root directory, will it overwrite all styles? Or just the styles I specifiy within the file? 

> Alright so what I am wanting to test here is the idea of "overriding theme defaults". The reason this is waht I want to do is because "Jekyll themes set default" things for my website. For instance, the Jekyll theme I have on my site sets default layouts and default stylesheets. (It also sets default "includes", but I'll write about includes some other time). 

Alright then, the [documentation here](https://jekyllrb.com/docs/themes/#overriding-theme-defaults) tells me how to do just that. 

So here are the steps: 

1. Make a copy of the specific file I want to modify

so this sort of answers my larger question of "What will be overwritten if I duplicate a stylesheet within my root directory.   

that is, I need to locate the file I want to alter, copy it, and then paste it in a directory in my root directory with the name of `_layouts` or `_includes`. Ok. Got it. 

Well, hmmm. this is interesting