---
layout: post
published: false
---

So what exactly is a route? 

In the simplest possible terms: it's a path from one place, to another. 

For example, if I think about how to get to the grocery store from my current location, I know which **route** I would take. 

Routing in a web application is similar to this idea. It's also different. 

Instead of going from one physical place to another physical place, i'm going from one website to another website. 

The process of going to the grocery store would require me to put on my shoes, grab my jacket, grocery list and maybe reusable bags. Then I'd jump in my car and follow the route, while obeying traffic laws. 

the process of following a route on a computer is as simple as typing an "address" in the address bar, and hitting enter. 

But what is happening _after_ hitting ENTER? 

Because as a self-taught programmer it's not enough to simply build an entire website or application. The next thing important to know is the writing of the code that allows users who type in the address of my web application to actually get to my web application. 

So if a user types the address to my website, they actually get to my website. 

So to understand routes for my web application I need to start by thinking about the most basic and simplest route. 

And the simplest route in all of my files is the route (or path) to my root URL. 

## Root

Something that needs to be assumed for this conversation is the actual location of the entire app. 

Like literally, where is it? 

The answer: a server. 

And when learning about routing and HTTP and the web, it's a little difficult to speak about the "reality" of where the actual application will be. Because while in development, the application is in my local file structure. 

So the assumption is that my application will eventually be on a server somewhere and the entire application will be accessible to users of the web. 

It's a little difficult to imagine what every single web address will be for all the different pages of my application; HOWEVER, it's a little easier to think about what the web address will be for the first page, the home page, the landing page, or whatever will be the root of my project. 

So really, to begin understanding routes, the first thing I want to do is I want to imagine someone making a request to visit the very "front" of my application....or the "welcome page" of my application....or the first page of my application. 

Just like all my projects usually have me doing a `mkdir` in the command line, that is a root folder. Or a root directory. 

This shouldn't be news to you at this point. I'd imagine you're very comfortable with the idea of what a root directory is. It's where every other directory (folder) and file "lives" for a specific project. 

No matter what though, there's always a root directory. 

So let's start with that. 

In the `routes.rb` file, let's simply type the word `root`. 

To let Rails know that you're specifying a path for the root of your application, all we need to do is type `root`. 

Next, I have to tell Rails where to send these requests. 

```ruby
root to: "welcome#index"
```

So what will happen here is...

1. when someone types the root address of my web application into a browser, the browser will make a request to my application, and then
2. the request will go to the `routes.rb` file and 
3. since the line of `root to: "welcome#index"` is there, the application will go to the welcome controller, and 
4. it will look at the `index` action (aka ruby method) and
5. the application will perform any ruby code that lives in the `index` action, 
6. then it will go grab the `welcome/index` view and finally 
7. it will then send all that back to the browser that made the initial request


Ok, then at this point in the article someting else needs to be said. 

Maybe create the section of the article that are like: 

- Introduction
- Allegory
- Assumptions
- Explanation
- Example
- Conclusion

