---
layout: post
published: false # switch to true when I'm ready to publish this
title:  "Writing a blog article is easy with Jekyll!" # whatever you'd like it to be; if omitted will 
---
Everyone wants a shortcut to a blog, but I'm writing this article to tell you that shortcuts are not needed! In fact, writing a blog article is easy with Jekyll! 

 At it's core, generally speaking Jekyll is nothing more than a Gem. However, the folks who have built Jekyll refer to the software as a 'static site generator'. After generating a static site, following the instructions on their homepage, it is a short leap to writing blog articles. With any software, there are some basic 'rules' which must be respected for the article to appear in the blog. The first rule this article will discuss is the convention used to name the file. The second topic discussed is front matter, which uses YAML (a simple markup language) to set and use global and page variables. Next I'll write about how markdown is used to write the bulk of a blog articles content. Finally I'll write about were the markdown (or Markup?) files should be stored in the project directory. While it seems like a lot, if you've gotten this far with using Ruby and installing the Gem via your command line, this really shouldn't be too difficult to understand. Writing a blog article is easy with Jekyll in our "toolbelt"!

## body

With the first static site generated using Jekyll, the first thing to do is to create a markdown file. You have been writing all your notes in your self-study in markdown, right? Right?!  



## conclusion