---
layout: post
published: false
tags: git
---

Show changes between commits, commit and working tree and other units of work

# synopsis
git diff [<options>] [<commit>] [--] [<path>...]
git diff [<options>] --cached [--merge-base] [<commit>] [--] [<path>...]
git diff [<options>] [--merge-base] [<commit>] [--] [<path>...]

there are some others, but I'm not going to copy them verbatim; that seems wasteful, especially when I don't know how to interpret them.

# description

Show changes between the working tree and the index or a tree, or...
show changes between the index and a tree, or
change between 2 trees, or
changes resulting from a merge or
changes between 2 blob objects
or changes between 2 files on a disk

I don't know what most of these things are.

I mean, I thought a working tree was like....the current branch i'm on, though I'm beginning to suspect that isn't true. Maybe I need to go through the thing again.

I barely know how to navigate this webpage, let alone interpret the information on this page.

so I know that I can call git diff. So, there is a huge amount of information with git help diff. While it'd be good to read all of it, it's not all necessary. But sitting up and reading some of it is good for me.

how do I usually use it?

usually git diff, without any options.

What I'm trying to use it for now is to see the differences between the current branch and why it says it's ahead by 6 commits.

so there are options that I can pass to git diff:

-p
-u
--patch

Generate patch. This is the default. Not really sure what this means or what it does.

Not really sure.

Yeah, I'm not a huge fan of the documentation, because I'm a little shaky on the actual other stuff that I already know.

Keep things slow, and don't try to read too much.

Version control is a system that records changes to a file (or files) over time, so specific versions can be recalled later.

VCS allows reverting files back to a pervious state, the entire project, compare changes over time, see who last modified a thing, who introduced an issue and when, etc.

I'm curious about the context of "introduced an issue".... because the list of what VCS allows mentions:

- see who last modified something that might be causing a problem

and it also mentions

- who introduced an issue

why do I seek additional context here? Is the term "issue" here meant to represent an issue, as in a ticket? I don't think so. I believe here a ticket would be something much different, because a ticket is typically associate with project managment tools, and not necessarily VCS itself. So perhaps I've answered my own question, and the author here is being redundant for the sake of verbosity. Let's say that's what it is and move on.

I've always wanted to re-write all the documentation I've ever seen, though that's a fool-hardy undertaking, because there's no way to make all the documentation I've ever read more "correct". it'd only make it correct for me, in a certain moment.

Sitting up has seemed sort of good for me. Maybe I'm unnecessarily flexing my abdominus muscles in a posture of defensiveness, and it's starting to get to me.

I do want to really start to walk more.

VCS means usually easy to recover fuck ups, with little overhead.

This idea of "little overhead" is strange to me, though it's a mental model that the author is promoting.


# what does "ahead/behind" mean, in git?

"Ahead" is the number of commits _on this branch_ that do not exist on the base branch.

What is a base branch?

Behind means _the other_ branch has commits this one doesn't.
Ahead means _this branch_ has commits the other one doesn't.

The question then is: What's "the other" branch in both these scenarios?

The term base branch usually refers to the branch against which changes are compared.

Ok, so work is rarely done in a silo; it's usually compared to something else: either the original blank file, or the same file in a different state. That different state could be either a previous version locally, or a different version remotely.

ahead by 6 in this situation, means "relative to the remote tracking branch".